# 4.1. Production Syntax

Productions are defined using the syntax `production-name ::= term`, where a term is either:

## An atomic term

- A quoted string (`"abc"`), which matches that concatenation of characters. A single character is usually written with single quotes (`'a'`).
- A hexadecimal number (`x0A`), which matches the character at that Unicode code point.
- A range of hexadecimal numbers (`[x20-x7E]`), which matches any character whose Unicode code point is within that range.
- The name of a production (`c-printable`), which matches that production.

## A lookaround

- `[ lookahead = term ]`, which matches the empty string if `term` would match.
- `[ lookahead ≠ term ]`, which matches the empty string if `term` would not match.
- `[ lookbehind = term ]`, which matches the empty string if `term` would match beginning at any prior point on the line and ending at the current position.

## A special production

- `<start-of-line>`, which matches the empty string at the beginning of a line.
- `<end-of-input>`, matches the empty string at the end of the input.
- `<empty>`, which (always) matches the empty string.

## A parenthesized term

Matches its contents.

## A concatenation

Is `term-one term-two`, which matches `term-one` followed by `term-two`.

## A alternation

Is `term-one | term-two`, which matches the `term-one` if possible, or `term-two` otherwise.

## A quantified term:

- `term?`, which matches `(term | <empty>)`.
- `term*`, which matches `(term term* | <empty>)`.
- `term+`, which matches `(term term*)`.

> Note: Quantified terms are always greedy.

The order of precedence is parenthesization, then quantification, then concatenation, then alternation.

Some lines in a production definition might have a comment like:

```
production-a ::=
  production-b      # clarifying comment
```

These comments are meant to be informative only. For instance a comment that says `# not followed by non-ws char` just means that you should be aware that actual production rules will behave as described even though it might not be obvious from the content of that particular production alone.